# HolmSchool
Holm Schoolers are computer scientists that are home schooled -- or even better -- unschooled. Holm Schoolers put their faith in open source and know that the open source community has developed free and copyleft educational resources for learning computer science (as well as other disciplines) to the point that paying for anything other than community or local public college is a tremendous risk of one's money. Because open source has been around for so long, there is enough of an archive of cultural works that a computer scientist could receive their training completely using free and open educational resources (OER) on the internet. This doesn't even factor in the utility of the public library in your town -- your public library has many programming books as well as free video tutorial sites like Lynda.com, which hosts many programming lessons in almost every programming language. They also have computers and laptops if you don't have one. Unschooling is learning college-level material on your own for as low of cost as possible, either by necessity or by choice.

Did you know that if, instead of spending $60,000 on a bachelor's degree, you invested that money in by maxing out your 401k (in a S&P500 index fund) and IRA (in a total stock market index fund) over the course of three years instead (there is a $19,000 a year limit on a 401k and a $6000 a year limit on an IRA), you would earn (from age 20 to 60) roughly $1,303,471.29 dollars ($60,000 at 8% interest over 40 years). That's the opportunity cost of college! Colleges would rather charge __YOU__ $60,000 @ 5% or so interest from ages 20-60, then they would be the ones earning compound interest over 40 years! How much better it would be to teach yourself computer science using open source OER and put the money earned from your first programming job into a maxed-out 401k and IRA? If you maxed out your 401k and IRA every year you worked from age 22-32 ($19,000 each year in a 401k invested in a S&P500 index fund, and $6000 each year in a Vanguard IRA account invested in VTSAX), you'd have $250,000 in your retirement account at the age of 32, which would compound over the next 28 years (assuming 8% interest) to $2,156,776.60 at age 60. If you were to keep living frugally while earning a salary as a programmer from age 22+, just like you lived frugally while unschooling computer science from age 18-22 and avoided private university, then you could even retire early, as [Mr. Money Mustache](https://mrmoneymustache.com) did with his programming job by saving 50%-80% of your take-home salary each year. Holm Schoolers are well-versed in personal finance and extend their frugal computer science education skills to frugal living as well, once employed as a programmer. That means that they are able to save so much money that they become financially independent (when your earnings from your index fund investments exceeds your yearly cost of living) at a young age. Holm Schoolers study personal finance, index funds, financial independence, and early retirement (FIRE) just as eagerly as they study computer science, which means they know that fancy cars and houses aren't as important as being financially independent. Holm Schoolers know that living frugally doesn't mean deprivation, and just like not having a college degree doesn’t doom you to failure, having a savings rate above 50% doesn’t mean you suffer either. 

###### First Books to Read
Topic | Book
------------ | -------------
Unschooling | [Grace Llewellyn - The Teenage Liberation Handbook - How to quit school and get a real life and education](https://homominimus.files.wordpress.com/2013/11/the-teenage-liberation-handbook-how-to-quit-school-and-get-a-real-life-and-education.pdf)
Financial Independence | [Mr. Money Mustache](http://www.mrmoneymustache.com/all-the-posts-since-the-beginning-of-time/)
Financial Independence | [J.L. Collins - The Simple Path to Wealth](https://jlcollinsnh.com/stock-series/)

Computer science isn't a topic that requires a university education. Classroom discussions rarely happen, and whereas a professor could answer your questions, stack overflow seems to do the same. Simply put, all you need in modern times is a laptop (even a $50 raspberry pi will suffice) and an internet connection. If you don't have that, you can always go to the public library and use their computers on a cloud IDE. If you are impoverished, computer science is perhaps the most fruitful path for self-study towards a career because of the low cost of educational resources (OER is free) and the sheer ubiquity of inexpensive technology. Knowing how to program is a great way to escape poverty as well. More and more business need programmers outside of the expensive hubs of LA, SF, and NY, including the midwest or even rural locations. Many people have cell phones which could serve as an internet connection or PDF reader to fuel computer science self-study. 
